
照片來源：igrec
剛剛 Apple 的官方網站刊出執行長 Tim Cook 的公開聲明1，他表示對於上週隨著 iOS 6 正式推出的自家地圖 app 表現不佳，Apple 感到「極度地抱歉（extremely sorry）」，Apple 的團隊將會盡全力讓地圖 app 變得更好。
Tim Cook 也告訴大家，在 Apple 努力精進自家地圖 app 的同時，使用者們可以嘗試 App Store 中其他的地圖 app，例如 Bing、MapQuest 和 Waze 等，或是將 Google 地圖、Nokia 地圖行動版網頁設到 iOS 6 的主畫面（iOS 的網頁瀏覽器 Safari 有一個將目前網頁「加入主畫面」的功能）。
以下是聲明稿原文：
To our customers,
At Apple, we strive to make world-class products that deliver the best experience possible to our customers. With the launch of our new Maps last week, we fell short on this commitment. We are extremely sorry for the frustration this has caused our customers and we are doing everything we can to make Maps better.
We launched Maps initially with the first version of iOS. As time progressed, we wanted to provide our customers with even better Maps including features such as turn-by-turn directions, voice integration, Flyover and vector-based maps. In order to do this, we had to create a new version of Maps from the ground up.
There are already more than 100 million iOS devices using the new Apple Maps, with more and more joining us every day. In just over a week, iOS users with the new Maps have already searched for nearly half a billion locations. The more our customers use our Maps the better it will get and we greatly appreciate all of the feedback we have received from you.
While we’re improving Maps, you can try alternatives by downloading map apps from the App Store like Bing, MapQuest and Waze, or use Google or Nokia maps by going to their websites and creating an icon on your home screen to their web app. Everything we do at Apple is aimed at making our products the best in the world. We know that you expect that from us, and we will keep working non-stop until Maps lives up to the same incredibly high standard.
Tim Cook,
Apple’s CEO
這並非第一次 Apple 高層承認自家的產品「不是那麼好」，過去 Steve Jobs 就曾在 2008 年一封內部的 E-mail 表示 iCloud 的前身「Mobile Me」 確實表現不佳。另外一個例子當然就是 iPhone 4 有名的「天線門（antennagate）」事件，當時 Apple 非常罕見地特別召開了記者會對外說明他們的處理方式。Steve Jobs 的官方傳記中明確地寫出 Apple 認為那次是「危機處理」，當時正在夏威夷度假的 Steve Jobs 甚至將兒子帶在身邊趕回去，他告訴兒子：
接下來這兩天，或許一天二十四小時我都在開會，我希望你能時時刻刻在我身邊跟著學。你在這兩天學到的東西，將勝過在商學院念兩年。你可以看看全世界最棒的人才，碰到難纏的問題如何做決策。
Well，就像我們在 〈 紐約時報稱 Google 地圖的行動版 web app 將在兩週內加入街景功能 〉 最後所說的：
Apple 這麼做必須付出代價——接受自己的地圖比不上 Google 的事實，面對所有來自消費者的抱怨他們也只能閉嘴，埋頭苦幹把產品做好，而且在這個過程中也勢必會面臨使用者出走的情況。至於這樣對 Apple 的損害有多嚴重，就要看他們要花多久時間才能把地圖功能做得「好用一點」，因為他們得跟時間賽跑。萬一幾個月之後 Google 真的推出 iPhone 與 iPad 版的 app，而 Apple 的地圖還是缺乏競爭力，那麼可以預料會有大批的使用者轉用 Google 的地圖 app，這對 Apple 完備自家地圖服務可是一點好處也沒有。
當然，有一點我們錯了——Apple 沒有閉上嘴巴，他們選擇迅速地道歉，這是明智的決定。

Apple -- A letter from Tim Cook on Maps ↩


