
圖片來源：Flickr
昨天 COO 才剛暗示要進行裁員，沒想到今天第一個裁掉的就是自家 CEO 兼創辦人 Andrew Mason（註一）。Mason去年 11 月便面臨著被開除的危機，當時的股價也非常不好──自 IPO 以來下跌了 80%。甚至當時 Mason 可能被開除的消息傳出後，股價便上漲了 5%。三個多月後，這真的發生了。
Groupon 在昨晚的公告中提到 Mason 已經卸下 CEO 的職務，並由執行董事長 Eric Lefkofsky 和副董事長 Ted Leonsis 開始尋找新的全職 CEO。而在前一晚 Groupon 股價還暴跌 23%，但 Mason 離開後便漲了 8%，顯然外界真的相當不看好這位 CEO。
而不只是外部，看來內部員工也同樣希望這位 CEO 走人：
圖片來源：Business Insider
以下是 Mason 寫給 Groupon 全體員工的告別信：
Groupon 人們：
身為 Groupon 的 CEO，我在過去四年半中度過了緊張而美妙的日子。我已決定要花更多時間陪伴家人，這只是個玩笑—─今天我被開除了。如果不知道為什麼....那表示你一直都沒注意過我。從 S1（註二）中備受爭議的業績目標，到兩季業績均未能達到公司的預期，再到徘徊在上市時四分之一左右的股價，過去一年半中的所有事情都說明了一切。作為CEO，我應對此負責。
你們在 Groupon 的表現令人驚豔，應該讓外界給你們第二次機會。我在這中間是個阻礙，而全新的 CEO 會為你們帶來機會。我們已經在過去幾個月裡分享公司的戰略，董事會為此付出了很多努力。作為一家全球公司，你們的工作效率是我看過中最好的。現在是時候給 Groupon 帶來一個出氣閥，讓公司遠離大眾的噪音。
對於那些關心我的朋友，請不必為我擔心，我熱愛Groupon，並為我們創造的過去感到十分驕傲。我對於這段旅程中的挫敗是OK的，如果說 Groupon 是遊戲「戰鬥蛙」，那麼我就像是破到 Terra Tubes 這關卡還沒丟掉半條命的玩家（註三）。我感到非常幸運有機會與你們一起讓這家公司走到現在，現在我將花點時間去減壓（僅供參考：我正在尋找好的減肥班，目標是 40 磅，如果有推薦的請告訴我），然後我會嘗試找出如何把這經驗轉化為某種具有生產力的方式。
如果說，在這段簡單的朝聖之旅中有什麼智慧能與你們分享的話：要有勇氣以使用者為先。我最大的遺憾就是，有時候我會由於缺少資訊而凌駕自己的直覺，選擇錯誤對顧客最好的事情，這次的領導權變更將給你們有些喘息空間以打破壞的陋習，並不斷的提供顧客幸福感，不要浪費這次的機會！
我會非常想你們。
愛你們的，
安德魯
People of Groupon,
After four and a half intense and wonderful years as CEO of Groupon, I’ve decided that I’d like to spend more time with my family. Just kidding – I was fired today. If you’re wondering why… you haven’t been paying attention. From controversial metrics in our S1 to our material weakness to two quarters of missing our own expectations and a stock price that’s hovering around one quarter of our listing price, the events of the last year and a half speak for themselves. As CEO, I am accountable.
You are doing amazing things at Groupon, and you deserve the outside world to give you a second chance. I’m getting in the way of that. A fresh CEO earns you that chance. The board is aligned behind the strategy we’ve shared over the last few months, and I’ve never seen you working together more effectively as a global company – it’s time to give Groupon a relief valve from the public noise.
For those who are concerned about me, please don’t be – I love Groupon, and I’m terribly proud of what we’ve created. I’m OK with having failed at this part of the journey. If Groupon was Battletoads, it would be like I made it all the way to the Terra Tubes without dying on my first ever play through. I am so lucky to have had the opportunity to take the company this far with all of you. I’ll now take some time to decompress (FYI I’m looking for a good fat camp to lose my Groupon 40, if anyone has a suggestion), and then maybe I’ll figure out how to channel this experience into something productive.
If there’s one piece of wisdom that this simple pilgrim would like to impart upon you: have the courage to start with the customer. My biggest regrets are the moments that I let a lack of data override my intuition on what’s best for our customers. This leadership change gives you some breathing room to break bad habits and deliver sustainable customer happiness – don’t waste the opportunity!
I will miss you terribly.
Love,
Andrew
 
 
 
（註一）Groupon fires CEO, Mason admits "failure" in candid memo
（註二）S1
（註三）Battletoads – Terra Tubes

