

照片來源：keso
上個月，前 Google 大中華區總裁，目前是創新工場創辦人兼 CEO 的李開復博士在 LinkedIn 一連發表了多篇短文，其中一篇 〈 Top reasons why start-ups fail 〉1舉出了幾個他認為新創公司會失敗的主要原因：
Lack of focus – Smart people want to try many new ideas, but a resource-constrained start-up does not have the luxury to try all cool things.
不夠專注。聰明人往往想嘗試好幾個點子，然而對一家資源有限的新創公司而言，同時嘗試所有的酷點子是一種奢侈。
Too ambitious – Start-ups should be targeted on one user need – just tackle one market, one user segment, with one compelling feature that solves a real user need. After proving a concept with a small group of users, you can then expand to more users. Then, you will be well placed to discover more user needs to expand your product iteratively. This is the “lean start-up”
野心太大。新創公司因該要把目標瞄準在使用者需求上——選定一個市場、一個客層，用一種令人讚賞的方式解決使用者真正的需求。一旦在一小群使用者中得到驗證，即可拓展到更多的使用者。如此不斷反覆，就是「精實創業」。
Entrepreneur doesn't scale – Starting a 3-person company is very different from managing a 100-person company. To scale up requires either an experienced entrepreneur or one who is able to scale up quickly.
創業家不懂擴張。創辦一家三人公司跟管理規模百人的公司是很不一樣的事。為了擴張，你必須有一位經驗豐富的創業家或是懂得如何迅速擴張的人。
Team trust issues – VCs generally prefer team members who have known each other for a long time. Teams lacking trust will be severely challenged by both failure (how to downsize and what to cut) and success (how to divide responsibilities and financial upside).
團隊信任問題。創投通常偏愛成員之間已經互相熟稔的團隊。無論失敗（如何簡化組織、割捨）或成功（如何分配責任和財務），缺乏信任的團隊都會遭受嚴酷的挑戰。
Poor execution – In the “lean start-up” environment, a good start may be copied easily by others. So you must be able to execute dependably and quickly – your product needs to be updated on a weekly if not daily basis. Your leadership is maintained not by brand or by IP, but by your continual ability to execute and lead the pack.
執行力太差。在「精實創業」的環境中，好的開始會許會被別人輕易地複製。所以你必須確實、迅速地去執行——如果不能天天更新你的產品，至少也要做到每週更新。維持領先不是靠品牌或智慧財產權，而是你的執行力和領導能力。
Technology looking for solution – rather than a solution for a user pain looking for proven technology. A good entrepreneur realizes that what matters is not the cool technology, but the value to users. VCs would prefer the innovation to be in spotting the solution, rather than trying an untested (but new) technology.
一味地從新技術去找解決方案，反而不從成熟的技術中尋求真正能解決使用者困擾的方案。一個好的創業家要明白，重要的不是那些很酷的技術，而是帶給使用者的價值。創投喜歡的是能找出解決方案的創新，不是嘗試尚未成熟（但是很新穎）的技術。
 

Top reasons why start-ups fail↩





David Cheng:
November 2nd, 2012 at 8:47 am
 hmmmmm


Jerome Chou:
November 2nd, 2012 at 9:03 am
 專注於少數點子，找步驟擴充市場，用制度擴大營運規模，團結互補的團隊，高執行力，能解決實際問題的創新


Hero Max:
November 2nd, 2012 at 9:45 am
 Great article


Elena Chang:
November 2nd, 2012 at 10:54 am
 ^^


PoWen Tsai:
November 4th, 2012 at 2:54 am
 挺實在的啊，本跨國大企業全部中槍，無一遺漏，能這樣也真不簡單。


Alvin Wang:
November 5th, 2012 at 8:57 am
 說得好


Burnout Cheng:
November 8th, 2012 at 6:53 pm
 poor execution底下關於"一個好的開始或許就是拷貝別人的東西"
翻譯錯誤而且嚴重誤導...誰會這麼明目張膽直接建議去抄?


Yun-Che Wu:
April 10th, 2013 at 6:33 pm
 Another good article about why start-up fail.



